So, the last part that I have on this
section is to talk about classes.
I mentioned this is OOP, okay?
Object oriented programming.
So Dart is actually an object
oriented programming language.
So that means everything is a class.
So if you look at this class declaration,
I have a person class, we will talk
about imports later, but anyway.
I have a class here that has a property,
integer, id.
And then it has a function,
a method, no function keyword.
So this is pretty straightforward, okay?
No big deal, I get that most
of you will get the syntax.
But about creating objects of Dart,
you can use the new keyword as you're
used to in JavaScript and other languages,
or you can omit the new keyword,
like in other languages as
well such as Kotlin or Swift.
So actually here you can
see it works on both cases.
So p and q are two person objects and
it's exactly the same, okay, but
you will see that this is the Flutter way.
So when we have a Flutter project,
there is a linter included in VS Code and
also in Android Studio.
The linter will complain that you
shouldn't be using the new keyword.
I mean, it works but it will tell you,
hey, we are not using this in Flutter.
So it's a good idea then to get used
to not use the new keyword to create
new instances of a class, okay?
Make sense?
Just that.
What about constructors?
So constructors, we have a primary
constructor, okay, a primary constructor.
And then we have named constructors, okay?
I have a typo here, constructors.
So what is a primary constructor?
It's the constructor that you
have with a class name, okay,
similar to other languages like Java.
We don't use the constructor
keyword like in JavaScript, okay?
So it's a function with
the name of the class.
And you can receive no arguments, one
argument, more argument, named arguments.
It's up to you, but
you cannot create another one.
So we have only one primary constructor,
okay?
If you wanna create more
of these constructors,
you need to create a named constructor,
and this is how you do that.
So you use the name of the class,
a dot and a name,
and typically we start the name with from.
So you create a request from the network,
and
you receive a URL or wherever, okay?
Well, I should do this.
And you create another
request from wherever, okay?
So that's the idea, so
you have one primary constructor and
then you have these named constructors.
So what about,
let me remove this for a second.
And let's see this behavior.
So it's actually pretty common when you're
doing OOP, object oriented programming.
You're receiving
the constructor arguments and
assign those arguments into properties.
This is exactly what I'm doing.
I have an id, and
I'm saving that id in our property and
receiving a url, and
I'm saving that url in my property.
Because this is actually so common,
we have a shorthand here in Dart.
The shortcut is that
instead of using here,
id, we use this.id, and here this.url,
if I do this,
I don't need the assignment, okay?
So just by saying this.id,
this.url, it's going to be that property.
It's going to assign that property
automatically, makes sense?
And if your contractor has no more code,
we can even end the contractor
there with semi column, so
we replace curly braces,
the code block, with a semicolon.
Okay, make sense?
So, it's just that.
Also, when you do this,
you can get rid of the type,
because the type is going to infer
from the property declaration.
Make sense?
So yeah, it look fine.
And now if you want more constructors,
well, it's Request.from, and
you put a name.
So for example, from, we are going
to create a request from a URL.
So, and then you receive here a url.
And if you want, you can call the other
contractor as well with colon,
we will see that in the next sample.
So I don't wanna mess with this.
So now if we go back to your original
sample, the code that you have, okay?
If you look at this named constructor
fromData, it says this.id, this.url.
So it means it receives the id and
the url, and
it's saving the values in the properties.
And there is no code, but if you want,
you can have a code block and
do something else.
Okay, makes sense?
Yep.
>> Could you receive
this with optional thing?
>> Yeah.
>> I'm just wondering-
>> But in this case here,
they must be optional.
>> I'm just wondering about exactly.
I'm
wondering if this is would
assign it automatically.
>> What do you wanna do?
If you wanna-
>> Just optional like-
>> I mean, can receive here optional,
like-
>> No, but with this,
can you do with this optional or not?
>> No, because it's not optional here.
So if you use this,
if you use the shorthand,
it must be the same type as the property.
Because if not, it's not a property.
It's a different value.
And then, you can receive an optional, and
then you ask if the id is not null,
then you do it manually,
okay, like this, and if not,
you apply the full one.
I don't know, you can use ternary
operator if you want for this as well.
But yeah, you cannot use
a shorthand in that situation.
>> Why would you default ie to zero?
>> Just because I was playing with
the idea of putting an option,
it doesn't make any sense, yeah.
>> So is there a notion
of a default constructor?
>> So-
>> You can't create requests right now
without assigning it, right?
Well, now you can, from data you can.
>> Let me see if I get what you're saying.
So right now, I can request with id and
url or calling this named constructor.
So, how do you call the named constructor?
Well, I need to create a function
to actually play with this.
And if you wanna create a variable,
okay, let's create a request.
I can make a request with
a default constructor or fromData.
And because this accepts null,
I can pass null, actually.
So that's the difference, and null will
get here as null and it will save as zero.
Okay, make sense?
Something that it's interesting in Dart is
that when you are inside
a conditional asking for not null,
we know for sure that it's not null here,
okay, in this code block.
That means I don't need
to unwrap the optional.
Remember that we had to do that, for
example, for the length or whatever.
I don't need to actually do that here.
In fact, if I do that,
I get a warning saying, hey,
there is no effect here because
the receiving can't be null.
And you say, but it can be null.
I mean, the variable can be null.
But we are in the if, we are in
the condition where we know it's not null.
Fortunately, we don't need to do this.
That's good, that's good news.
In other languages, that's not possible.
So you always need to unwrap the optional.
So here the compiler is smart
enough to know that you are in,
let's say in a path, in a branch,
where your code makes that ID
mandatory and you know it's there.
So you don't need to deal with the
optional, with the null safety operators.
Okay, make sense?
A more advanced idea that I can
tell you at this point regarding
named constructors is you can
make them a factory, okay?
So what's the idea when
you make them a factory?
We're going to see one later.
When you make them a factory,
it's not actually a constructor.
It's a factory, okay, so
what's the difference?
It's actually using the abstract factory
design pattern from the original Gang of
Four, if you have ever played with those
design patterns, OOP design patterns.
Actually, a constructor will always
return something of type request.
I don't have a return here.
So in a constructor you
don't return yourself.
You don't do this, okay?
Well, when you have a factory,
you need to return an option.
And the idea of a factory,
the factory can return null.
The factory can return
an object of your type, or
sometimes the factory can
return an object of a sub-type.
For example, based on the arguments
I decide to return not a request but
an HTTP request or a socket request,
that is a subclass of request.
So a factory can return subclasses,
objects of a subclass, or null.
Because the factory will say no,
I'm not gonna construct an option,
because I know the arguments are wrong or
something happens, okay?
So we can also create
factories using this.
Inheritance work like this with extends,
like in Java, in JavaScript.
In this case I create a constructor
receiving two arguments.
And I'm extending from
the super constructor,
this is how you call
the super constructor.
And I don't have a code, but I can also
open code here and do something else.
Okay, so if you end with a semi colon,
you don't have a code block, if not,
you have a code block.
And you can use named parameters,
for example, in the constructor.
And we are going to see
these a lot in Flutter.
Flutter is full of named
constructors everywhere.
Okay, it's the same as a function,
because a constructor is just a function.
>> So for the factory, how do you call it,
is it like a static method?
>> It's like a static method, yeah.
It's the same as the constructor,
actually.
>> Okay, I'm good.
>> Question from the chat.
>> When should you use classes and
when interfaces?
Most of the time I use interfaces
because most of the object-oriented
code is back-end specific or
the application just needs to display and
manipulate data but the back end needs
to follow programming best practices.
>> Okay, let's see, first,
do we have interfaces here?
So if I type interface, and i do something
like this, actually it will complain.
It says, variables,
you can define const, final, var.
So actually we don't have interface.
So if you're coming from Java or
other language,
you don't have interfaces
here as the idea.
So, there are many other design
patterns that we use here.
I'm not saying that you don't
have a way to emulate interfaces.
But let's say that in Dart, you will
most of the time be creating classes.
We don't have something
simpler such as structures,
or something to follow protocols.
There are many design patterns that
you can use, but most of the time,
we're going to be
creating classes in Dart.
>> Is from required?
>> Are you talking about this,
like if you wanna name your
constructor differently?
No, it's not required.
It's actually part of a guideline,
a style guideline.
So now you know that when you wanna crate
object, use the class of the object, dot,
and you see if there is a from something,
but it's actually not mandatory.
We are going to see later in Flutter
that one of the widgets that we're
going to use, a widget is a UI class,
has something known as a builder.
And you will see that it's not actually
using all the time that from prefix.
>> You said in the named constructors.
>> Is in?
>> From in the named constructors.
>> So from is actually part of the,
it's like a function.
It's a function that will create
an instance of your request, and
it will execute your code also, okay?
But this is a function name.
So anything that goes in a function name
will work, but we tend to use the from
keyword, remember, this is if you
wanna have more than one constructor.
The default constructor is this one,
mainly called primary constructor or
default constructor.
Then you can have more
constructors with names.
They work like when you're having
a static method in other languages
returning objects, like a factory kind of.
>> How about in abstract class?
>> Okay, so if your question is,
if I can create abstract classes?
Yes, I can.
So I have AbstractRequest, and
of course, what's the difference?
You cannot create the instances of
an abstract class or put a parenthesis,
my bad.
And, of course,
you can extend from an abstract class and
create an actual concrete
class that you can use.
So yeah, we do have abstract classes,
the same as in Java or
other languages with that idea.
Are we going to use that?
In, Flutter, no, unless you are creating
your own data model with abstract classes.
No, we don't see that a lot,
but it's there, okay?
So if you wanna use it, it's there.